THE CITY OF DESTRUCTION
As I walked through the wilderness of this world, I came upon a certain
place, where there was a den—and I laid down in that place to sleep. And
as I slept, I dreamed a dream. I dreamed, and, behold—I saw a man
clothed with rags, standing with his face turned away from his own
house, with a Book in his hand, and a great burden upon his back. I
looked, and saw him open the Book, and read therein; and as he read, he
wept and trembled! And not being able to contain himself any longer—he
broke out with a lamentable cry, saying, "What shall I do?"
In this plight, therefore, he went home, and restrained himself as long as
he could—so that his wife and children would not notice his great
distress. But he could not be silent for long, because his trouble only
increased. Therefore at length, he spoke his mind to his wife and children
—and thus he began to talk to them: "O my dear wife, and you, my dear
children—I am undone, because of this burden which lies heavily upon
me! Moreover, I am certainly informed, that this city of ours will be
burned with fire from Heaven! In that fearful catastrophe, both myself,
with you, my wife, and you, my sweet babes—shall come to miserable
ruin—unless some way of escape can be found, whereby we may be
delivered."
At this, his family was greatly bewildered—not that they believed what he
had said to them was true—but because they thought that his mind had
become deranged.
Therefore, as it was drawing towards night, and hoping that sleep might
settle his brains—with all haste they put him to bed. But the night was as
troublesome to him as the day—and instead of sleeping, he spent it in
sighs and tears! When the morning came—they inquired how he felt. He
told them, "Worse and worse!" He then commenced to talk to them again
—but they began to be hardened. They also thought to drive away his
derangement, by harsh and cruel conduct toward him. Sometimes they
would deride him, sometimes they would chide him, and sometimes they
would simply ignore him.
Therefore he began to withdraw himself to his room to pray for, and pity
them—and also to comfort his own misery. He would also walk solitarily
in the fields—sometimes reading, and sometimes praying. And thus for
several days, he spent his time in this manner.
Now I saw in my dream, while he was walking in the fields, that he was
reading in his Book—as was his habit. Being greatly distressed in his
mind as he read—he burst out, as he had done before, crying, "What shall
I do to be saved?"
I saw also, that he looked this way and that way—as if he wanted to run.
Yet he stood still, because, as I perceived, he could not tell which way to
go. I looked then, and saw a man named Evangelist coming towards him,
who asked, "Why are you crying out?"
He answered, "Sir, I realize, by the Book in my hand—that I am
condemned to die, and after that to come to judgment. And I find that I
am not willing to do the first—nor able to do the second."
Then Evangelist said, "Why are you not willing to die—since this life is
attended with so many troubles?"
The man answered, "Because I fear that this burden upon my back will
sink me lower than the grave—and I shall fall into Hell! And, Sir, if I am
not fit to die—then I am sure that I am not fit to go to judgment, and from
thence to execution! My thoughts about these things make me cry out!"
Then Evangelist said, "If this is your condition, why do you stand still?"
He answered, "Because I do not know where to go!"
Then Evangelist gave him a parchment scroll—on which was written,
"Flee from the wrath to come!"
The man therefore, reading it, looked very sincerely upon Evangelist, and
asked, "Where must I flee?"
Then Evangelist, pointing with his finger over a very wide field, said, "Do
you see yonder narrow-gate?"
The man answered, "No."
Evangelist replied, "Do you see yonder shining light?"
He said, "I think I do."
Then Evangelist said, "Keep that light in your eye, and go directly to it—
and then you shall see the gate; at which—when you knock—you shall be
told what you must do."
So I saw in my dream, that the man began to run. Now, he had not run far
from his own door—before his wife and children, seeing him depart,
began to shout after him to return. But the man put his fingers in his ears,
and ran on, crying, "Life! life! Eternal life!"
So he did not look behind him—but fled towards the middle of the plain.
OBSTINATE AND PLIABLE
The neighbors also came out to see him run. As he ran—some mocked,
others threatened, and some cried after him to return. Among those who
did so, were two who were resolved to fetch him back by force. The name
of the one was Obstinate—and the name of the other was Pliable. Now by
this time, the man had gone a good distance away from them; but they
were resolved to pursue him—and in a little while, they caught up with
him.
Then the man said, "Neighbors, why have you come?"
They answered, "To persuade you to go back with us!"
But he said, "That cannot be! You dwell in the City of Destruction, the
place where I also was born. I see that, sooner or later, dying there—we
will sink lower than the grave—into a place which burns with fire and
brimstone! Think, good neighbors, and come along with me!"
"What!" said Obstinate, "and leave our friends and our comforts behind
us?"
"Yes," said Christian, for that was his name, "because all that you shall
forsake, is not worthy to be compared with a little of what I am seeking to
enjoy. And if you will go along with me, and persevere—you shall fare as
well as I myself. For there, where I am going, is more than enough—and
to spare. Come along—and see that my words are true!"
"What are the things which you seek," asked Obstinate, "since you are
leaving all the world to find them?"
Christian answered, "I am seeking an inheritance which can never perish,
spoil or fade—safe and reserved in Heaven—to be bestowed, at the
appointed time—on those who diligently